Hi, this is Craig Golightly, and welcome to Managing and Operating Databases.
Once you've deployed your databases,
you then need to keep them in working order with regular maintenance.
We'll cover some differences between managed and unmanaged
services in terms of what you need to do, compared to what
the service does for you.
We'll also discuss the importance of understanding your recovery
requirements when designing backup and restore.
There are several things that need to be taken care of to keep
your database in good operating condition.
For example,
ensuring enough free disk space and keeping your database engine
up to date with both major and minor updates.
You'll also need to manage log files and decide on maintenance
windows to perform any potentially disruptive tasks.
As you consider your database design and select which
service is the best fit for your requirements,
be sure to factor in how much of the database maintenance and operations
burden you want to keep as your responsibility versus how much you want
the database service to take care of for you.
Within AWS, you have a range of options for how this is managed.
For example,
you can provision EC2 machines and create your own
machine image for your database engine,
handle clustering and routing using load balancers,
implement your monitoring system of choice,
and manage updates and patches.
This is similar to how you would manage assets in a data center.
The biggest difference is that you would be managing cloud resources using
AWS APIs instead of physical resources in a data center.
This arrangement provides you the greatest control over database
configuration and how and when updates are performed on your cluster,
since most maintenance and operational tasks are your responsibility.
On the other end of the spectrum,
you could use a fully managed database service, where you
simply use the database and the service adapts to your usage
patterns. Scaling servers up and down,
performing updates and patches, high availability,
monitoring, and even backups are all built into the service and managed for you.
While you can still provide certain configuration values
for your database, you won't be able to control every
aspect of how the database operates.
However,
this arrangement requires much lower maintenance from you because the
service is handling many of the operational and maintenance activities.
Somewhere in the middle are services like RDS,
which handles some aspects of the operations and maintenance but also give you
several options for controlling database engine settings,
high availability configuration, and selecting maintenance windows for updates.
You're also responsible for monitoring log file retention,
disk space, and monitoring.
Wherever you end up on the spectrum of maintenance responsibilities,
be sure to become familiar with management options for the AWS database
services you use. Again, courses for a particular database service will go
into more detail for that particular service.
Some tasks can be accomplished with no downtime,
while others require the database to be offline.
For most database update tasks, you should utilize a maintenance window.
Maintenance windows are preset days and times where the database could
have slower performance or be offline due to updates and should be
scheduled when database activity is slowest.
For most organizations, this is typically during nighttime or weekend hours.
Maintenance windows are well published with
proactive communication to all users,
reminding them of upcoming activity during the maintenance window
and contact information if they need support with anything after a
maintenance task has been performed.
Free disk space isn't talking about a sale on
database storage that has zero cost.
The free we're talking about here is open or
available disk space for your database.
Managing free disk space can range from a nonissue with managed
services that have virtually infinite storage, to a major undertaking
if you're using instance storage and need to transition to entirely
new instances with more disk space. Understanding your expected data
growth can help you minimize the need for performing major maintenance
to add disk space.
Proper monitoring of free disk space is also essential to ensure you
don't run out of disk space during normal operations.
On the other hand,
overprovisioning could result in unnecessary charges to your monthly AWS bill.
So how much free disk space you need to maintain will
change based on your application. Finally,
let's look at some possible options for maintaining database log files. Again,
depending on the AWS database service you use, these options may not apply.
If you're running in RDS,
you'll have specific configuration available to manage your log files.
CloudTrail is a service that logs calls to AWS APIs.
Some organizations utilize CloudTrail logs to help audit database activity.
CloudWatch and CloudWatch Events can be used in a variety of ways
for monitoring your database and logging activity.
You can also leverage services such as Simple Queue
Service, SQS; Simple Notification Service,
SNS; and Simple Storage Service, S3, to customize how you manage database log files.